P a g e | 26
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach
rumbling, mind spinning over the same unanswerable
questions, Harry fell into an uneasy sleep.
He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card
reading UNDERAGE WIZARD attached to his cage.
People goggled through the bars at him as he lay,
starving and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw Dobby’s
face in the crowd and shouted out, asking for help,
but Dobby called, “Harry Potter is safe there, sir!” and
vanished. Then the Dursleys appeared and Dudley
rattled the bars of the cage, laughing at him.
“Stop it,” Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in
his sore head. “Leave me alone … cut it out … I’m
trying to sleep. …”
He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through
the bars on the window. And someone was goggling
through the bars at him: a freckle-faced, red-haired,
long-nosed someone.
Ron Weasley was outside Harry’s window.
P a g e | 27
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
THE BURROW
“Ron!” breathed Harry, creeping to the window and
pushing it up so they could talk through the bars.
“Ron, how did you — What the — ?”
Harry’s mouth fell open as the full impact of what he
was seeing hit him. Ron was leaning out of the back
window of an old turquoise car, which was parked in
midair. Grinning at Harry from the front seats were
Fred and George, Ron’s elder twin brothers.
“All right, Harry?” asked George.
“What’s been going on?” said Ron. “Why haven’t you
been answering my letters? I’ve asked you to stay
about twelve times, and then Dad came home and
said you’d got an official warning for using magic in
front of Muggles —”
“It wasn’t me — and how did he know?”
“He works for the Ministry,” said Ron. “You know
we’re not supposed to do spells outside school —”
P a g e | 28
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
“You should talk,” said Harry, staring at the floating car.
“Oh, this doesn’t count,” said Ron. “We’re only
borrowing this. It’s Dad’s, we didn’t enchant it. But
doing magic in front of those Muggles you live with —”
“I told you, I didn’t — but it’ll take too long to explain
now — look, can you tell them at Hogwarts that the
Dursleys have locked me up and won’t let me come
back, and obviously I can’t magic myself out, because
the Ministry’ll think that’s the second spell I’ve done
in three days, so —”
“Stop gibbering,” said Ron. “We’ve come to take you
home with us.”
“But you can’t magic me out either —”
“We don’t need to,” said Ron, jerking his head toward
the front seat and grinning. “You forget who I’ve got
with me.”
“Tie that around the bars,” said Fred, throwing the
end of a rope to Harry.
“If the Dursleys wake up, I’m dead,” said Harry as he
tied the rope tightly around a bar and Fred revved up
the car.
“Don’t worry,” said Fred, “and stand back.”
Harry moved back into the shadows next to Hedwig,
who seemed to have realized how important this was
and kept still and silent. The car revved louder and
louder and suddenly, with a crunching noise, the
bars were pulled clean out of the window as Fred
drove straight up in the air. Harry ran back to the
window to see the bars dangling a few feet above the
P a g e | 29
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
ground. Panting, Ron hoisted them up into the car.
Harry listened anxiously, but there was no sound
from the Dursleys’ bedroom.
When the bars were safely in the back seat with Ron,
Fred reversed as close as possible to Harry’s window.
“Get in,” Ron said.
“But all my Hogwarts stuff — my wand — my
broomstick —”
“Where is it?”
“Locked in the cupboard under the stairs, and I can’t
get out of this room —”
“No problem,” said George from the front passenger
seat. “Out of the way, Harry.”
Fred and George climbed catlike through the window
into Harry’s room. You had to hand it to them,
thought Harry, as George took an ordinary hairpin
from his pocket and started to pick the lock.
“A lot of wizards think it’s a waste of time, knowing
this sort of Muggle trick,” said Fred, “but we feel
they’re skills worth learning, even if they are a bit
slow.”
There was a small click and the door swung open.
“So — we’ll get your trunk — you grab anything you
need from your room and hand it out to Ron,”
whispered George.
“Watch out for the bottom stair — it creaks,” Harry
whispered back as the twins disappeared onto the
dark landing.
P a g e | 30
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
Harry dashed around his room, collecting his things and passing them out of
the window to Ron. Then he
went to help Fred and George heave his trunk up the
stairs. Harry heard Uncle Vernon cough.
At last, panting, they reached the landing, then
carried the trunk through Harry’s room to the open
window. Fred climbed back into the car to pull with
Ron, and Harry and George pushed from the bedroom
side. Inch by inch, the trunk slid through the window.
Uncle Vernon coughed again.
“A bit more,” panted Fred, who was pulling from
inside the car. “One good push —”
Harry and George threw their shoulders against the
trunk and it slid out of the window into the back seat
of the car.
“Okay, let’s go,” George whispered.
But as Harry climbed onto the windowsill there came
a sudden loud screech from behind him, followed
immediately by the thunder of Uncle Vernon’s voice.
“THAT RUDDY OWL!”
“I’ve forgotten Hedwig!”
Harry tore back across the room as the landing light
clicked on — he snatched up Hedwig’s cage, dashed
to the window, and passed it out to Ron. He was
scrambling back onto the chest of drawers when
Uncle Vernon hammered on the unlocked door — and
it crashed open.
P a g e | 31
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
For a split second, Uncle Vernon stood framed in the doorway; then he let
out a bellow like an angry bull
and dived at Harry, grabbing him by the ankle.
Ron, Fred, and George seized Harry’s arms and pulled
as hard as they could.
“Petunia!” roared Uncle Vernon. “He’s getting away!
HE’S GETTING AWAY!”
But the Weasleys gave a gigantic tug and Harry’s leg
slid out of Uncle Vernon’s grasp — Harry was in the
car — he’d slammed the door shut —
“Put your foot down, Fred!” yelled Ron, and the car
shot suddenly toward the moon.
Harry couldn’t believe it — he was free. He rolled
down the window, the night air whipping his hair,
and looked back at the shrinking rooftops of Privet
Drive. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley were
all hanging, dumbstruck, out of Harry’s window.
“See you next summer!” Harry yelled.
The Weasleys roared with laughter and Harry settled
back in his seat, grinning from ear to ear.
“Let Hedwig out,” he told Ron. “She can fly behind us.
She hasn’t had a chance to stretch her wings for
ages.”
George handed the hairpin to Ron and, a moment
later, Hedwig soared joyfully out of the window to
glide alongside them like a ghost.
“So — what’s the story, Harry?” said Ron impatiently.
“What’s been happening?”
P a g e | 32
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
Harry told them all about Dobby, the warning he’d
given Harry and the fiasco of the violet pudding.
There was a long, shocked silence when he had
finished.
“Very fishy,” said Fred finally.
“Definitely dodgy,” agreed George. “So he wouldn’t
even tell you who’s supposed to be plotting all this
stuff?”
“I don’t think he could,” said Harry. “I told you, every
time he got close to letting something slip, he started
banging his head against the wall.”
He saw Fred and George look at each other.
“What, you think he was lying to me?” said Harry.
“Well,” said Fred, “put it this way — house-elves have
got powerful magic of their own, but they can’t
usually use it without their master’s permission. I
reckon old Dobby was sent to stop you coming back
to Hogwarts. Someone’s idea of a joke. Can you think
of anyone at school with a grudge against you?”
“Yes,” said Harry and Ron together, instantly.
“Draco Malfoy,” Harry explained. “He hates me.”
“Draco Malfoy?” said George, turning around. “Not
Lucius Malfoy’s son?”
“Must be, it’s not a very common name, is it?” said
Harry. “Why?”
“I’ve heard Dad talking about him,” said George. “He
was a big supporter of You-Know-Who.”
P a g e | 33
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
“And when You-Know-Who disappeared,” said Fred,
craning around to look at Harry, “Lucius Malfoy came
back saying he’d never meant any of it. Load of dung
— Dad reckons he was right in You-Know-Who’s
inner circle.”
Harry had heard these rumors about Malfoy’s family
before, and they didn’t surprise him at all. Malfoy
made Dudley Dursley look like a kind, thoughtful,
and sensitive boy.
“I don’t know whether the Malfoys own a house-elf.
…” said Harry.
“Well, whoever owns him will be an old wizarding
family, and they’ll be rich,” said Fred.
“Yeah, Mum’s always wishing we had a house-elf to
do the ironing,” said George. “But all we’ve got is a
lousy old ghoul in the attic and gnomes all over the
garden. House-elves come with big old manors and
castles and places like that; you wouldn’t catch one in
our house. …”
Harry was silent. Judging by the fact that Draco
Malfoy usually had the best of everything, his family
was rolling in wizard gold; he could just see Malfoy
strutting around a large manor house. Sending the
family servant to stop Harry from going back to
Hogwarts also sounded exactly like the sort of thing
Malfoy would do. Had Harry been stupid to take
Dobby seriously?
“I’m glad we came to get you, anyway,” said Ron. “I
was getting really worried when you didn’t answer
any of my letters. I thought it was Errol’s fault at first
—”
“Who’s Errol?”
P a g e | 34
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
“Our owl. He’s ancient. It wouldn’t be the first time he’d collapsed on a
delivery. So then I tried to borrow
Hermes —”
“Who?”
“The owl Mum and Dad bought Percy when he was
made prefect,” said Fred from the front.
“But Percy wouldn’t lend him to me,” said Ron. “Said
he needed him.”
“Percy’s been acting very oddly this summer,” said
George, frowning. “And he has been sending a lot of
letters and spending a load of time shut up in his
room. … I mean, there’s only so many times you can
polish a prefect badge. … You’re driving too far west,
Fred,” he added, pointing at a compass on the
dashboard. Fred twiddled the steering wheel.
“So, does your dad know you’ve got the car?” said
Harry, guessing the answer.
“Er, no,” said Ron, “he had to work tonight. Hopefully
we’ll be able to get it back in the garage without Mum
noticing we flew it.”
“What does your dad do at the Ministry of Magic,
anyway?”
“He works in the most boring department,” said Ron.
“The Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office.”
“The what?”
“It’s all to do with bewitching things that are Muggle-
made, you know, in case they end up back in a
Muggle shop or house. Like, last year, some old witch
died and her tea set was sold to an antiques shop.
P a g e | 35
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
This Muggle woman bought it, took it home, and tried to serve her friends
tea in it. It was a nightmare —
Dad was working overtime for weeks.”
“What happened?”
“The teapot went berserk and squirted boiling tea all
over the place and one man ended up in the hospital
with the sugar tongs clamped to his nose. Dad was
going frantic — it’s only him and an old warlock
called Perkins in the office — and they had to do
Memory Charms and all sorts of stuff to cover it up —
”
“But your dad — this car —”
Fred laughed. “Yeah, Dad’s crazy about everything to
do with Muggles; our shed’s full of Muggle stuff. He
takes it apart, puts spells on it, and puts it back
together again. If he raided our house he’d have to put
himself under arrest. It drives Mum mad.”
“That’s the main road,” said George, peering down
through the windshield. “We’ll be there in ten
minutes. … Just as well, it’s getting light. …”
A faint pinkish glow was visible along the horizon to
the east.
Fred brought the car lower, and Harry saw a dark
patchwork of fields and clumps of trees.
“We’re a little way outside the village,” said George.
“Ottery St. Catchpole.”
Lower and lower went the flying car. The edge of a
brilliant red sun was now gleaming through the trees.
P a g e | 36
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
“Touchdown!” said Fred as, with a slight bump, they hit the ground. They
had landed next to a
tumbledown garage in a small yard, and Harry looked
out for the first time at Ron’s house.
It looked as though it had once been a large stone
pigpen, but extra rooms had been added here and
there until it was several stories high and so crooked
it looked as though it were held up by magic (which,
Harry reminded himself, it probably was). Four or five
chimneys were perched on top of the red roof. A
lopsided sign stuck in the ground near the entrance
read, THE BURROW. Around the front door lay a
jumble of rubber boots and a very rusty cauldron.
Several fat brown chickens were pecking their way
around the yard.
“It’s not much,” said Ron.
“It’s wonderful, ” said Harry happily, thinking of Privet
Drive.
They got out of the car.
“Now, we’ll go upstairs really quietly,” said Fred, “and
wait for Mum to call us for breakfast. Then, Ron, you
come bounding downstairs going, ‘Mum, look who
turned up in the night!’ and she’ll be all pleased to
see Harry and no one need ever know we flew the
car.”
“Right,” said Ron. “Come on, Harry, I sleep at the —
at the top —”
Ron had gone a nasty greenish color, his eyes fixed on
the house. The other three wheeled around.
Mrs. Weasley was marching across the yard,
scattering chickens, and for a short, plump, kind-
